---
categories:
- Gaming
date: "2005-03-14T20:28:51Z"
published: true
tags: []
title: EVE Online
---

Well I'm back from JHB :P.

I just spent my entire weekend playing EVE Online - a MMORPG type affair
based in space - if you've played Microsoft's Freelancer, you'll have an
idea of what this game's about. Only difference is that EVE is a million
times bigger, has thousands of players online at any given point (all in
a single, living universe), is nowhere near as linear or dull, and the
graphics will blow you away.

The best way I can think of for describing this game would be "OMG". It
is absolutely massive. Over the entire weekend I trek'ed around maybe
10-15 solar systems at the most, yet there are hundreds available. Every
time I arrive to dock at a station, or pass by a stargate (transport
between systems) there are ships I have never seen before. There are
NPC-based missions galore, there are hundreds of player-run
corporations, doing mining, production, peace-keeping, bounty hunting,
and who knows what else.

This is absolutely THE most open-ended game I've ever laid eyes on...
You can do absolutely anything. For example, you could set yourself up
with offices and a production facility in a station, then go out and
mine for ore and stuff, bring that back, refine it, buy some blueprints
for a ship, build the ship with the refined ore, and sell the ships to
other players. You could even buy ore from other players who do the
mining for you, or buy new blueprints from traders bringing them from
systems 20 jumps away.

It's quite amazing... Get someone with a full subscription to give you a
14-day trial, download the client for free, and give it a bash :).

<http://www.eve-online.com/>
