---
categories:
- Random
date: "2005-11-18T22:24:08Z"
published: true
tags:
- Johannesburg
- Moving
- Telkom
title: Back in action, in JHB :)
---

w00t

Finally, got my internet connection back. Turns most of the houses in
the townhouse complex we moved into don't actually have phone lines
installed. It's taken more than 2 weeks of begging and whining at the
complex managers to get something done. They finally arrived yesterday
(Thursday) with a Telkom tech guy and installed it in around 10 minutes.

Today a not-too-bright Telkom dude pitched up and installed the ADSL.
Apparently we should be glad it works at all, since we're far from the
exchange. I guess all that matters is that it actually works in the end
:).

The drive up was pretty uneventful, even though it did take 12 hours,
around 3-4 more than it should have. I blame retarded truck drivers for
that. I must say the scenery around the Eastern Cape is a lot nicer than
the barren wastelands between there and Johannesburg. I'll miss it. The
weather here is so dry and hot :(, I'll miss the humidity too.

Aside from the lack of a phone line (although fixed now), the new place
is pretty nice, secure and stuff, 2Kms from work, nice views (guess I'll
post some nice pics I took the other day soon). You're not allowed to
hammer anything into the walls or anything here, or drill any holes,
etc, etc, so I'm looking into getting as many PCs on 108mbps wireless
LAN. Dodging masses of network cables around the passages between rooms
isn't too hot :).

Work's just work, but it's nice not having to fix people's emails and
printers every five minutes, I'm just left alone to write code and
stuff. I'm strangely looking forward to work every day much more than I
used to in East London, although I'm basically doing the same job
(except the lame fixing stuff). Maybe it's the free and easy access to
the coffee machine. Unfortunately the interweb has been owned by a
rather nasty proxy/firewall setup that seems to block completely random
stuff, even development resources like parts of SourceForge (like most
search results) and large parts of the online PHP manual. UnrealZA also
works fine, until you try to view a thread... Pretty strange :/.

Guess I should stop babbling and go catch up on some Battlefield 2 :D.
