---
categories:
- Random
date: "2005-10-17T10:36:54Z"
published: true
tags:
- music
- pandora
title: Discovering Music with Pandora
---

So [Korpse](http://kaydash.za.net/) pointed out a rather interesting
website the other night - [Pandora](http://www.pandora.com.).

Basically, it's a rather nice little service which allows you to
discover new music, artists, etc, by telling it which music you like
already. Based on a song, or artist name you provide, it goes off and
finds music matching an assortment of criteria matching the provided
song/artist. It then proceeds to play a endless playlist. It's all
streaming, but it's extremely good quality for streamed content, and
practically never stutters, even when downloading or uploading other
stuff (0n 512k ADSL anyway).

During your listening, if it plays something you don't particularly
like, you can tell it so, and it'll further fine tune the playlist, the
same applies to something you do like.

I do have a few things I'd like to see added or changed though. The
ability to play your well refined playlist in the player of your choice
- could play pretty much like a normal streaming playlist. Show a
timer/track progress bar thing, it's just nice to know :). Ability to go
back and play previously listened to tracks. Perhaps two additional
rating categories - it'd be nice to rate vocals and music separately.

Anyway, my 10 free trial hours are up, and I can't seem to cheat by
deleting cookies or something. My MasterCard should be arriving this
week some time, and I'm seriously considering that \$36 for an annual
subscription...
