--- layout: post status: publish published: true title: OpenOffice.org 2
Beta author: display\_name: Shrimp login: shrimp email:
shrimp@shrimpworks.za.net url: http://shrimpworks.za.net/ author\_login:
shrimp author\_email: shrimp@shrimpworks.za.net author\_url:
http://shrimpworks.za.net/ wordpress\_id: 26 wordpress\_url:
http://malcolm.shrimpworks.za.net/\~shrimp/blog/?p=26 date: '2005-05-29
20:39:54 +0200' date\_gmt: '2005-05-29 18:39:54 +0200' categories: -
Software tags: \[\] ---

I haven't really seen a lot of news about the
[OpenOffice.org](http://OpenOffice.org) 2 Beta release. It seems to me
like a pretty important thing :P.

Anyway I poped by the OO site recently and grabbed the beta (which is
actually version 1.9.79). Anyway, first thing to note is the loading
time has unfortunately not really changed much since the 1.1 range. Next
thing you'll notice is the look. It looks a few million times better
than previous versions, and actually looks like a native Windows
application now. The toolbar icons all look much clearer - I never
really liked the previous version's icons much at all, they were all
very unclear as to what they did.

Next up, Calc now supports 64000 rows!! This was my biggest gripe with
previous versions - they were limited to 32000 before, which pissed me
off no end when trying to work with large chunks of data. For me, this
is the biggest imporvement I could have hoped for :). I also found
defining custom number and date formats somewhat easier than before.

I can't say I've used Writer all that much, so I can't comment too much
on that, but I did note that the Print Preview has been properly
overhauled. The Print Preview seemed to have been an issue when trying
to convert people :).

I can't say I care much for the new Open Document Formats, since most of
my work requires me to use Excel and Word files, so I just write to
those formats whenever I save. Lets see if MS will start to support the
format in Office now that it's been recognised and approved as a
standard.

Overall, I guess the real version 2 can only get better :).
