--- layout: post status: publish published: true title: SaveScreen -
save screenshots instantly! author: display\_name: Shrimp login: shrimp
email: shrimp@shrimpworks.za.net url: http://shrimpworks.za.net/
author\_login: shrimp author\_email: shrimp@shrimpworks.za.net
author\_url: http://shrimpworks.za.net/ wordpress\_id: 43
wordpress\_url: http://malcolm.shrimpworks.za.net/\~shrimp/blog/?p=43
date: '2005-10-03 17:01:11 +0200' date\_gmt: '2005-10-03 15:01:11 +0200'
categories: - Gaming - Development - Software tags: - Battlefield 2 -
Screenshot - screen capture ---

Ever since installing BattleField 2, I've had a problem with taking
screenshots. Basically, the game completely freezes up when I press
whatever key is assigned to screen captures, and I need to reset my
computer completely. Also, I seemed unable to use Fraps to make screen
captures since the game seemed to be blocking all requests to whichever
keys I assigned to Fraps' captureing options.

I decided to rather just create my own utility. A simple application
that hooks into the "Print Screen" key's press, so when you press Print
Screen, this app takes the image out of the clipboard, and will write it
to a folder as a JPEG image. You can customise both the output location
and the JPEG compression quality. The images are named after the current
date and time.

It doesn't work only for games, ANY time you press Print Screen, a
screenshot will be saved. I think that could actually be pretty useful.

Yes, there are a million screen grabbers for Windows out there, but
writing something yourself is both educational, and you know exactly
what it's doing. Also, I now have a single screenshot button for games,
and everything else as well :D.

Note this may not work for all games, as some games tend to dump quite a
mess to the clipboard when attempting a Print Screen.

This post also serves as a test for the [attachment
plugin](http://gordon.knoppe.net/articles/category/attach-files/) for
WordPress I recently installed ;).
