--- layout: post status: publish published: true title: More new toys
author: display\_name: Shrimp login: shrimp email:
shrimp@shrimpworks.za.net url: http://shrimpworks.za.net/ author\_login:
shrimp author\_email: shrimp@shrimpworks.za.net author\_url:
http://shrimpworks.za.net/ wordpress\_id: 62 wordpress\_url:
http://malcolm.shrimpworks.za.net/\~shrimp/blog/?p=62 date: '2006-04-14
15:51:11 +0200' date\_gmt: '2006-04-14 13:51:11 +0200' categories: -
Random tags: \[\] ---

Well, only one for now.

Sadly, I no longer need my laptop for work, as I have been provided with
a proper desktop machine (this may be a good thing, since I can now boot
Debian permanently, as I'll no longer need to use Delphi on it). Anyway,
I kind of liked having my work stuff and private stuff portable with me.
So, I got something a little more portable, which I can both work (well,
do basic documents, do all my emailing, track to-do's, contacts, etc),
and personal (fill it with random fun stuff) stuff on.

Enter, the [iPAQ
hx2750](http://h10010.www1.hp.com/wwpc/za/en/sm/WF06b/1781533-1781535-1781535-1781535-1781563-10244643-15509825.html)
:D. Complete with wireless LAN, so I can connect to networks at home,
work, and the occasional Mug and Bean, Bluetooth for sending files
between the handheld and laptop, and sending photos to to from the phone
(I can even dial contacts on the iPAQ via bluetooth on the phone :P, and
of course use it as a dial-up modem when a network is not available), SD
slot for extra storage, and another way to transfer files between laptop
and handheld, and a bunch of other leet stuff it can do.

I've also got [PocketPuTTY](http://pocketputty.net/) up and running, so
when I feel the urge I can pop onto whatever boxen I need, [Python
CE](http://pythonce.sourceforge.net/) has already been helpful, as it
enabled me to write a small .tar file extraction script for some other
files I wanted. Even though I'm still first and foremost an Unreal
fanboy, I couldn't resist installing [Pocket
Quake](http://quake.pocketmatrix.com/). [Pocket
RAR](http://rarsoft.com/download.htm) and [Adobe
Reader](http://www.adobe.com/products/acrobat/readerforppc.html) have
also come in rather handy.

Pocket Word is quite reasonable, and maintains document's original
formatting quite nicely. Pocket Outlook works very well for receiving,
reading, and sending emails, and if ever offered the option of Outlook
or Pocket Outlook, I'd have to choose the pocket version :P. It handels
POP and IMAP mail eaqually well, and even does IMAPS without
complication.

All-in-all, I'm rather impressed, and I find myself using it rather
regularly throughout the day, especially for keeping track of projects
and things at work, which was partly the main idea anyway.
