--- layout: post status: publish published: true title: Me and my Xbox
360 author: display\_name: Shrimp login: shrimp email:
shrimp@shrimpworks.za.net url: http://shrimpworks.za.net/ author\_login:
shrimp author\_email: shrimp@shrimpworks.za.net author\_url:
http://shrimpworks.za.net/ wordpress\_id: 78 wordpress\_url:
http://malcolm.shrimpworks.za.net/\~shrimp/blog/?p=78 date: '2006-10-04
22:12:50 +0200' date\_gmt: '2006-10-04 20:12:50 +0200' categories: -
Random tags: \[\] ---

I'm only posting now, since I finally managed to drag myself away for
long enough to actually do some useful stuff for a change.

I could probably rave on for hours about how awesome the thing is, but
then, you've probably read a million other reviews already.

Launch day I was up with the sparrows, off to my local Look & Listen to
pick up my pre-order, only to realize they open an hour later than I had
arrived :D. An eternity later (AKA one hour), I was in as the door
opened, at the counter collecting my stuff (and the casheer labled
"Trainee" ended up instructing the manager on how to do the sale, since
the pre-order deposit had to be taken into account). I was rather
disapointed with their limited game selection, they had no Tomb Raider:
Legend, Dead or Alive 4, or Project Gotham Racing 3 - despite DOA and
PGR being the main selling points aparrently, with huge posters
everywhere.

Went over to [Incredible Connection](http://www.incredible.co.za/) who
have a branch in the same centre, to be greeted with lovely PGR stands
and banners everywhere, yet no actual PGR or DOA stock, and the usual
assortment of lame staff who looked shocked to discover that there was
in fact this gigantic X'360 stand/area in the middle of the shop.

Anyway, off to [Makro](http://www.makro.co.za/) next, who luckily had
loads of stock of DOA and PGR, and were a bit cheaper than the prices on
[Look & Listen's website](http://www.lookandlisten.co.za/).

Oh, I forgot to mention just how heavy the darn thing is. Lugging it
around the shopping centre was no walk in the park, and my weakling arms
were actually quite painful afterward.

Anyway, between then, usual working hours, and now, I've been playing,
learning, discovering, etc. It was a bit of a schlepp to get hooked up
to Live, as it's not actually supported in SA yet, and since they
seemingly don't allow you to change your country after sign-up, it's a
bit of a mission to set up a profile that is usable. I ended up creating
a UK-based Passport and Live account.

On the subject of Live, Sony is going to have to pull off something
really amazing to beat Microsoft's setup, it's really quite alltogether
cool (except that, because of Telkom I'm willing to bet, every now and
then when communicating with Live, adding friends, unlocking
acheivements, etc., the machine hangs completely and needs to be reset -
probably why Live is not officially supported here yet).

And I \[b\]seriously\[/b\] need a better spam filtering setup.
[SpamBayes](http://spambayes.sourceforge.net/) catches only around 50%
of my spam, regardless of how much more I train it, if anything it's
getting less effective over time. Currently looking at
[Bogofilter](http://bogofilter.sourceforge.net/).

Anyway, I'm off to see how DOA4 multiplayer works :)
