--- layout: post status: publish published: true title: 'Catchup:
Gaming' author: display\_name: Shrimp login: shrimp email:
shrimp@shrimpworks.za.net url: http://shrimpworks.za.net/ author\_login:
shrimp author\_email: shrimp@shrimpworks.za.net author\_url:
http://shrimpworks.za.net/ wordpress\_id: 169 wordpress\_url:
http://shrimpworks.za.net/?p=169 date: '2011-07-28 17:18:59 +0200'
date\_gmt: '2011-07-28 15:18:59 +0200' categories: - Gaming tags: -
Unreal Tournament - Team Fortress 2 ---

![](http://shrimpworks.za.net/wp-content/uploads/2011/07/tf2.jpg){.alignnone
.size-full .wp-image-170 width="520" height="160"}

I really have to use this thing more often than once or twice a year :D.
I'm just going to do a few posts on a couple of subjects just for
personal lols.

Lots of Team Fortress 2 has been played. I thought since it went free,
there'd be plenty of noobs to beat up. Sadly all the kids playing games
these days are not noobs ;). I'm also really enjoying playing an online
FPS on PC once more, still something I haven't done to any degree since
UT3 fizzled (did it ever really get going at all, though?).

The more I play however, the more I long for something like Unreal to
return.

TF2 is great fun, but it all feels extremely luck and spam based. Pretty
much every class with the exception of the Spy and Sniper can be played
by running headlong into the fight with your finger glued to the trigger
and hoping for the best.

As much as I noobed my way through UT for years, I find myself missing
the "precision" elements of that sort of game. Carefully timing armour
and pickup spawns, shock-comboing someone halfway across the map, the
intensity of a close CTF match. Sure there are still plenty of Flak
monkies and rocket spam, but TF2 just feels pretty flat compared to all
that.

They just don't make them the way they used to :). Quake Live doesn't
count because it's Quake and I suck at it. Looking forward to trying
Rage though, and I hope the multiplayer (on PC) is not too full of
novelties like vehicles and crazy weapons. I could really do with some
old fashioned DM!
