--- layout: post status: publish published: true title: Perspective
author: display\_name: Shrimp login: shrimp email:
shrimp@shrimpworks.za.net url: http://shrimpworks.za.net/ author\_login:
shrimp author\_email: shrimp@shrimpworks.za.net author\_url:
http://shrimpworks.za.net/ wordpress\_id: 625 wordpress\_url:
http://shrimpworks.za.net/?p=625 date: '2014-11-05 21:01:31 +0200'
date\_gmt: '2014-11-05 19:01:31 +0200' categories: - Development - Rants
tags: \[\] ---

After reading a lot of rants and essays about developers, their working
environments, tools, the process of getting their work done (in relation
to "the business" side of things), and career opportunities, I find
myself wondering; do we just whine too much about it all, or do we
*really* have to put up with so much more crap than other industries or
professions?

Do we suffer from an inflated sense of entitlement - did we (and are
expected to continue to) study, learn and practice for years only to end
up like battery chickens, churning out code, or are we "deserving" of
extra perks, privileges and financial reward?

Yes, developers are almost *entirely* responsible for every cent made
(and even more so for every **loss**!) in almost every industry these
days, and in most cases, I really don't believe they get the credit they
deserve (new product launched, management team praised and treated to
expensive outing, golf day, or conference to show it off while we are at
work hacking on the Next Big Thing). But we're not alone in our
suffering and expectations of better things.

Somewhere there's the Accounting Drone capturing all the cents made
possible by the developers. The Accounting Drone also has a shitty
manager who expects them to capture more cents every day, under shitty
conditions with just as shitty deadlines, for very poor pay. This guy's
job security is also near non-existent. Nobody capturing all the cents
means us whiny developers don't get paid. Maybe there are some rants and
essays about the unreasonable conditions and tools the Accounting Drone
must endure.

Elsewhere, there is the Sales Bro. Generally the bane of every
developers life (worse than project managers!). It's all very well for
us to come up with the latest and greatest version of Thing2000 the
world has ever seen, but I personally do not know a single developer who
would be capable of selling Thing2000 on their own. Yes, we'll all be
highly indigent when Sales Bro "sells" Thing2000 Feature X before it
exists, but at least someone out there actually knew Thing2000 existed
and (hopefully) needs it to have Feature X (and is thus generating
revenue for Accounting Drone to count and pay us with). I'm sure Sales
Bro also has a blog where he complains about how he can never get his
job done because developers are always so slow and uncooperative in
delivering new things his customers need.

Let's not forget Support Pleb, who has to suffer through customers rants
and idiocy, while finding creative ways around developers shortcomings.
I'm fairly confident a very large percentage of issues Support Pleb has
to deal with day-to-day could be resolved by a bit of development time.
This guy puts up with a huge amount of shit that would otherwise fall
directly on developers, again, for crappy pay and non-existent job
security. I'm pretty sure Support Pleb bitterly resents those developer
slackers who always seem to be making more work for him, yet scatter
like ants when problems are brought to their attention.

Finally we also have to have the Big Wig at the top somewhere. Those
unreasonable people who are always hiring newbs and firing us, placing
us in uncomfortable office environments, not shelling out for the tools
we need, and dictating unreasonable deadlines. Again, unfortunately, I
do not know a single developer capable of establishing and running a
business the way Big Wig does. Big Wig possibly posts internet rants
about how all he wants is for his Accounting Drones, Sales Bros, Support
Plebs and developers to make more money for him - and doesn't find that
an unreasonable expectation, since he's established and ensures the
continuity the enterprise paying all their salaries.

So, are developer rants and whines about how bad they have it justified?
For the most part, I'm going to have to say no. I'm also going to hazard
that most of the problems developers face, in terms of unreasonable
expectations, poor tools, lack of recognition, are not a result of
simply being in software development as a profession, but are the result
of poor management (at various levels of an organization), and are in
fact faced by most other professions as well. We're just more
comfortable getting behind a keyboard and dumping our thoughts on the
internet :).

TL;DR: As much as we like to think we might be, we're not the be-all and
end-all of our place of employment, and find a job at a company that
makes you happy(-er).
